                            SonED2 v1.02

Welcome to SonED2, the Sonic the Hedgehog data editor. SonED2 contains
all the editing features of the original SonED along with additions and
improvements. Unlike the original, however, SonED2 edits individual
files, which means that data has to be extracted before editing, and
then reinserted when editing is complete. This allows the user to have
more control over their data layout, and also allows for making changes,
additions, and deletions that alter the data size without having to
worry about an automated system overwriting other data or leaving unused
gaps.

Because SonED2 edits individual files, it is "project"-based, meaning
that it is necessary to create a "project" file describing what data
files should be loaded. "Project Files" are plain text files, although
they are given the file extension .sep to identify them to SonED2 and
the user. These files contain the filenames of the data files required
to begin a particular editing project, and a few settings values when
necessary. Different types of projects use different formats for the
"Project File", which are explained by the "Project File" documentation.

At program-start, a logo screen is presented as a placeholder until a
"project" is loaded. Using the file menu, open a "Project File", and
if the data in that file is correct, the appropriate editor will start
and the data referenced by the "Project File" will be displayed and
ready for editing.

The "Save Project" selection will save all currently loaded data to the
files specified by the "Project File" that was used to open them. For
reference, the path and filename of the "Project File" are shown in the
window's titlebar. The "Project File" may be altered before using "Save
Project" if different names are desired. (Pressing F3 will also save the
current "project".)

SonED2 will function in a window or in full-screen mode. When an editor
is active, the "Editors" menu contains an option to switch to full-screen
mode. The F4 key may also be used to switch into or out of full-screen
mode. It is the only way to switch back to windowed mode. While in
windowed mode, the menu and scrollbars are available. To turn them off or
back on, the F2 key may be used.

For editing specifics, please refer to each editor's documentation.

This is an advanced tool for advanced users, so less experienced users
shouldn't expect to delve straight in without having a few problems.
Reading and understanding all documentation is essential.





SonED2 is created by Stealth (mstealtha@aol.com) of Organized Chaos
(http:\\stealth.emulationzone.org). Please make note in any project
for which SonED2 is used.

SonED2 uses the KENS compression/decompression library, compiled by
David Declerck (ChaosIsLight@aol.com) using code and methods developed
by various contributors. For more information, please see the KENS
documentation.

Special thanks to:

MSmoke
The Chaos Emerald
Damian Grove / Saxman
Brett Kosinski
Nemesis
Dr Ivo
Any other past or future contributors

Sonic the Hedgehog, related material, and all games supported by SonED2
and their data remain property of Sonic Team. SonED2 is intended for
use as a creative tool, not full-scale copyright infringement. Use of
SonED2 in violation of any law is strictly a decision on the part of the
end user. The user agrees to take sole responsibility for such actions,
and as such, implies that they are aware of applicable laws and penalties.